know one interesting thing to think
about is the relation of jesters and
carnival i haven't really figured this
out yet right
but um
bhaktine famously made the argument
about the carnivalesque that um
it's really a theory of bad taste of
aggressively bad taste that you know why
why are farts considered to be funny why
is it that no vulgar humor common
folker means common um
it's the same things you don't talk
about in polite company
basically ways that
the body is um
the distinction of your body and world
are unclear things moving in and out of
the body giving birth or taking a
or um
sex death uh all that kind of thing uh
superintending wounds would be things
you wouldn't really want to talk about
without having to you the vicar are the
things you make jokes about so there's
like vulgar jokes and and in a way
um you don't talk about those things
because you're trying to create the
person as an abstraction right to say
that they are and
they are cut off from the world they are
self-sufficient and perfect and don't
need to have any continuity they're
separated sacred um whereas
dirty jokes for a way of desacralizing
everything saying every all these people
who have these pretensions that
um they are pure and and abstract are
really just as corporeal just as gross
and disgusting as anyone else um in fact
rather more so they're just bigger
bodies you know grab and or stuff
um
and and
that is instinctively that so so that
kind of humor and that's often argued by
extension humor in general is inherently
subversive of the very kind of authority
that kings represent but the gesture is
almost a way of the king domesticating
the power of that type of humorous
subversion
you know he
taking a little deformed guy um
who sort of represents the very opposite
of what he is supposed to embody
as um
you know capturing the threat of the
carnivalesque and encompassing and
putting it in this tiny space where he
has total domination but at the same
time it can continue to try to subvert
him um so it's a kind of test of his own
transcendence status that he could have
this little like fragment of the very
lowest thing possible you know mocking
him at all times and it doesn't matter
there has to be some explanation anyway
for why court gestures seem to occur
in courts everywhere and all you know
even places which had no contact with
each other at all like you know the
aztec court had them the chinese court
had them the scottish court has them
yeah there has to be something
structural going on